<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&atlantik;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &atlantik; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Rob</firstname>
<surname>Kaper</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>kaper@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<copyright>
<year>2002</year><year>2004</year>
<holder>&Rob.Kaper;</holder>
</copyright>

<date>2005-12-10</date>
<releaseinfo>0.7.5</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&atlantik; is a &kde; client for playing <trademark
class="registered">Monopoly</trademark>-like boardgames on the
<command>monopd</command> network.
</para>

</abstract>


<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdegames</keyword>
<keyword>Atlantik</keyword>
<keyword>monopd</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>Purpose of the &atlantik; board game is to acquire land in major
cities in North America and Europe while being a transatlantic traveler. To
win the game, players improve monopolized land with profitable buildings in
the hopes of bankrupting all other players.</para>

<para>All game modes are served by monopd, a dedicated game server designed
for &atlantik;. One of the game modes plays like the popular real estate
board game known as <trademark class="registered">Monopoly</trademark>.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="connecting">
<title>Connecting to a Server</title>

<para>&atlantik; requires a game server to connect to. If you have an
Internet connection, you can request a list of public Internet servers and
you will not require additional software. If you want to play &atlantik;
locally, on a <acronym>LAN</acronym> or on a private Internet server, you
can enter the hostname and port to connect to. In this case, you will need
the <ulink url="http://robertjohnkaper.com/software/atlantik/download.html">
<command>monopd</command></ulink> server
software installed and running on the host you are connecting to.</para>

<para>If you have problems connecting to a server, the following troubleshoot
notes might help you:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Try another server. The public server list is updated every
three minutes, and the server you are trying to connect to might not be
available any longer.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Check your firewall and masquerading settings. Restrictions might be in
place preventing you from connecting to servers or receiving reply traffic.
By default, monopd servers use TCP port 1234. If you're not sure, contact
your system administrator.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>&atlantik; makes use of
<classname>KExtendedSocket</classname> for network connections, which in
turn uses <classname>QDns</classname>. This might cause issues with IPv6
and/or resolving hostnames.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="menu-reference">
<title>Menu Reference</title>

<sect1 id="game-menu">
<title><guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Event Log</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Display the event log</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Quits &atlantik;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="move-menu">
<title><guimenu>Move</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Roll Dice</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>As you may expect, roll the dice.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>End Turn</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Let the other player know you have finished
moving.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Roll Dice</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>As you may expect, roll the dice.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Buy</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Buy land or buy buildings on your properties.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Auction</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Start an auction.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Use Card to Leave Jail</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Use a card to leave jail</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Pay to Leave Jail</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Pay money to leave the jail.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu><guimenuitem>Roll to Leave Jail</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Roll the dice to leave the jail.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">
<title><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Notifications...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Displays</action> a standard &kde; notifications
configuration dialog to change the audio and visual notifications for &atlantik;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &atlantik;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the configuration
dialog which lets you tweak a lot of &atlantik;'s options.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">
<title><guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="reporting-bugs">
<title>Reporting Bugs</title>

<para>If you think you have found a bug in &atlantik;, please report
it. Developers often catch and fix bugs themselves, but you might
experience issues not yet known. Not reporting your problems might
very well prevent them from being fixed indefinitely.</para>

<para>Some bugs might be in the monopd server instead of &atlantik;, but you
don't need to worry about that: you can report all bugs under the &atlantik;
package on the <ulink url="http://bugs.kde.org/">&kde; bug
wizard</ulink>. Use the
<menuchoice><guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>Report
Bug</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu item to visit the bug wizard with some
details of your &atlantik; version filled in automatically.</para>

<para>Please specify details in your bug report, such as game
conditions. For example, a bug might only occur when people are in jail, or
during an auction. If possible, save the event log and attach it to the bug
report or send it to the author. It might contain vital clues about behavior
that could lead to a faster resolution for the bug.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="download">
<title>Download</title>

<para>&atlantik; is part of &kde; releases and as such the recommended
releases are those shipped with &kde;, part of the &package; package. Some
vendors might have individual packages for &atlantik; based on these
releases.</para>

<para>Users interested in the development version can likewise use the
standard <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/anoncvs.html">&kde; CVS
instructions</ulink> to acquire &atlantik; from the kdegames module.</para>

<para>Bleeding edge development requiring the development version of monopd
is done using arch. For more information on this, or releases in general,
visit the <ulink
url="http://robertjohnkaper.com/software/atlantik/download.html">&atlantik;</ulink> download
page.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="faq-answers">
<title>Answers to Frequently Asked Questions</title>

<qandaset>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I add a computer player?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Unfortunately, computer opponents are not yet supported by &atlantik;.
Work is in progress to development a network bot that can connect to
servers, called Pacifik, but is has
not yet reached a useful level.</para>
<para>Users are advised to take advantage of the public
Internet servers or a private <acronym>LAN</acronym> server.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I trade?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Click on a player portfolio or estate with the &RMB; and you can open
a trade.</para>
<para>There are a two usability issues with trades that can cause confusion.
If you in any way include another player in a trade, that player will get
the trade window. Any player can reject the terms, which unnecessarily ends
the trade session for all other players as well. A trade has to be accepted
by all players in it before it can completed, which can be complicated
because players remain a participant in deals even when they are no longer
involved with tradeable items.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>The program &atlantik; and the documentation are copyright &copy;
1998-2004 Rob Kaper <email>kaper@kde.org</email>.</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;


</chapter>

&documentation.index; 

</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

// vim:ts=2:sw=2:tw=78:noet
-->
